Adds documentation for Admin UI index operations (#2403)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/admin-ui-index/index-management.md

---
layout: default
title: Index Management
parent: Admin UI for index operations in OpenSearch Dashboards
nav_order: 10
---

> # Index Management

Reviewer: Global comment: Change heading to sentence case.

Introduced 2.5
{: .label .label-purple }

> The Index Management section in the admin UI allows you to preform the operations available in the [Index API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/index/) from OpenSearch Dashboards' web UI.

Reviewer: Confirm we mean "preform" and not "perform."

## Index Policies

> [Policies]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies/) are are configurations (JSON documents can also be uploaded) that define the following:

Reviewer: Delete second "are."

1. The states that an index can be in, including the default state for new indexes. For example, you might name your states “hot,” “warm,” “delete,” and so on. For more information, see [States]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies/#states).
2. Any actions that you want the plugin to take when an index enters a state, such as performing a rollover. For more information, see [Actions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies/#actions).
3. The conditions that must be met for an index to move into a new state, known as transitions. For example, if an index is more than eight weeks old, you might want to move it to the “delete” state. For more information, see [Transitions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies/#transitions).

In other words, a policy defines the states that an index can be in, the actions to perform when in a state, and the conditions that must be met to transition between states.

You have complete flexibility in the way you can design your policies. You can create any state, transition to any other state, and specify any number of actions in each state.

To attach policies to indices:

> 1. Select **Index policies** under **Index Management**.

Reviewer: Capitalize "P" in "policies" to match the UI.

> 1. Select **Index policies** under **Index Management**.

Reviewer 2: Global comment: Normally, when we describe UI actions, it's easier for users if you list the actions in the order the users have to do them. So, they first have to go to Index Management and then select Index policies.

2. Choose the index or indexes that you want to attach your policy to.

> 3. Choose Apply policy.

Reviewer: Bold "Apply policy."

> 4. From the Policy ID menu, choose the policy that you created.

Reviewer: Bold "Policy ID."

> 5. You can see a preview of your policy.

Reviewer: This item doesn't start with an action verb. Suggestion: "View the preview of your policy."

> 6. If your policy includes a rollover operation, specify a rollover alias. Make sure that the alias that you enter already exists. For more information about the rollover operation, see rollover.

Reviewer: Same as comment above. Suggestion: "(Optional): Specify a rollover alias if your policy includes a rollover operation..."

> 7. Choose Apply.

Reviewer: Bold "Apply."

> 8. After you attach a policy to an index, ISM creates a job that runs every 5 minutes by default to perform policy actions, check conditions, and transition the index into different states. To change the default time interval for this job, see Settings.

Reviewer: Same comment as above. Suggestion: "(Optional): Change the default time interval for this job under Settings. Not that after you attach a policy to an index, ISM creates a job that runs every 5 minutes by default to perform policy actions, check conditions, and transition the index into different states."

Policy jobs are not run if the cluster state is red.
{: .note}

## Managed Indices

To attach policies to indicies:

> 1. **Manage Indices** under **Index Management**.

Reviewer: Missing verb. "Select?" "Go to?"

2. Choose the index or indices that you want to attach your policy to.
3. Select the **Change policy** button.

> 4. Choose Apply policy.

Reviewer: Bold "Apply policy"

## Indices

> Displays a list of indices in your OpenSearch cluster. Various properties are listed for each index including Heath (Green, Yellow, Red), if the index is managed by a policy, status, total size, size of primaries, total documents, deleted documents, primaries and replicas.

Reviewer: First sentence is incomplete. What displays the list of indices? The **Index settings** window?

> Displays a list of indices in your OpenSearch cluster. Various properties are listed for each index including Heath (Green, Yellow, Red), if the index is managed by a policy, status, total size, size of primaries, total documents, deleted documents, primaries and replicas.

Reviewer: Delete "including" from the second sentence and change "heath" to "health." Insert "and" after "deleted documents."

#### Create Index

While you can [create an index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/create-index/) by using a document as a base, you can also just create an empty index for use later. 

To create an index, select the blue **Create Index** button located under the **Indices** section of **Index Management**. Then, define the index by setting the following:

1. Index name.
2. Number of primary shards.
3. Number of replicas.
4. Refresh interval.
5. Add fields and objects using either the visual editor or the JSON editor.

**Advanced settings** allows you to upload a JSON configuration.

#### Apply policy

> If you analyze time-series data, you likely prioritize new data over old data. You might periodically perform certain operations on older indices, such as reducing replica count or deleting them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you analyze time series data, you likely want to prioritize new data over old data. You might periodically perform certain operations on older indexes, such as reducing replica count or deleting them.
```

> [Index State Management]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/index/) (ISM) is a plugin that lets you automate these periodic, administrative operations by triggering them based on changes in the index age, index size, or number of documents. The admin UI uses the ISM plugin to define policies that automatically handle index rollovers or deletions to fit your use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Index State Management]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/index/) (ISM) is a plugin that lets you automate these periodic administrative operations by triggering them based on changes in the index age, index size, or number of documents. The admin UI uses the ISM plugin to define policies that automatically handle index rollovers or deletions to fit your use case.
```

For example, you can define a policy that moves your index into a **read_only** state after 30 days and then deletes it after a set period of 90 days. You can also set up the policy to send you a notification message when the index is deleted.

You might want to perform an index rollover after a certain amount of time or run a **force_merge** operation on an index during off-peak hours to improve search performance during peak hours.

> To apply a policy, select the index you want to apply the policy to in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Apply policiy** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To apply a policy, select the index to which you want to apply the policy in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Apply policy** from the dropdown list.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/apply-policy.PNG" alt="User interface showing apply policy prompt">

#### Close

> The [close]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/close-index/) operation closes an index. Once an index is closed, you cannot add data to it or search for any data within the index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [close index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/close-index/) operation closes an index. Once an index is closed, you cannot add data to it or search for any data within the index.
```

> To close an index, select the index you want to close in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Close** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To close an index, select the index you want to close in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Close** from the dropdown list.
```

#### Open

> The [open]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/open-index/) index operation opens a closed index, letting you add or search for data within the index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [open index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/open-index/) operation opens a closed index, letting you add or search for data within the index.
```

> To open an index, select the index you want to open in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Open** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To open an index, select the index you want to open in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Open** from the dropdown list.
```

#### Reindex

> The [reindex]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/document-apis/reindex/) operation lets you copy all or a subset of your data from a source index into a destination index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [reindex]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/document-apis/reindex/) operation lets you copy all your data or a subset of data from a source index into a destination index.
```

> To reindex an index, select the index you want to reindex in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Reindex** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reindex an index, select the index in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Reindex** from the dropdown list.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/reindex-expanded.png" alt="User interface showing reindex prompt">

#### Shrink

The [shrink]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/shrink-index/) index operation moves all of your data in an existing index into a new index with fewer primary shards.

> To shrink an index, select the index you want to shrink in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Shrink** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To shrink an index, select the index you want to shrink in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Shrink** from the dropdown list.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/shrink.png" alt="User interface showing shrink prompt">

#### Split

> The [split]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/split/) index operation splits an existing read-only index into a new index, cutting each primary shard into some amount of primary shards in the new index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [split]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/split/) index operation splits an existing read-only index into a new index, splitting each primary shard into a number of primary shards in the new index.
```

Reviewer: Change [split] to [split index] to following naming convention in the preceding sections.

> To split an index, select the index you want to split in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Split** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To split an index, select the index you want to split in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Split** from the dropdown list.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/split-expanded.png" alt="User interface showing split page">

#### Delete

> If you no longer need an index, you can use the [delete]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/delete-index/) index operation to delete it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you no longer need an index, you can use the [delete index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/delete-index/) operation to delete it.
```

> To delete an index, select the index you want to delete in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Delete** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete an index, select the index you want to delete in the **Indices** list under **Index Management**. Then select the **Actions** button, and select **Delete** from the dropdown list.
```

## Templates

> [Index templates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/) let you initialize new indices with predefined mappings and settings. For example, if you continuously index log data, you can define an index template so that all of these indices have the same number of shards and replicas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Index templates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/) let you initialize new indexes with predefined mappings and settings. For example, if you continuously index log data, you can define an index template so that all of these indexes have the same number of shards and replicas.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/templates.PNG" alt="User interface showing Templates page">

> To create a template, select the blue **Create template** button on the **Templates** page under **Index Management**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a template, select the **Create template** button on the **Templates** page under **Index Management**.
```

Next, define the template:

1. Enter the template name.
2. Select the template type.
3. Specify any index patterns you would like to use.
4. Set the priority of the template.
5. Select an index alias.
6. Set the number of primary shards.
7. Set the number of replicas.
8. Set the refresh intervals.
9. Add fields and objects for your index mapping using either the visual editor or the JSON editor.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/create-template-expanded.png" alt="User interface showing Create Template page">

## Aliases

An alias is a virtual index name that can point to one or more indexes. If your data is spread across multiple indexes, rather than keeping track of which indexes to query, you can create an alias and query it instead.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/aliases.PNG" alt="User interface showing Alias page">

> To create an alias:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an alias, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Select the blue **Create Alias** button on the **Aliases** page under **Index Management**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Create Alias** button on the **Aliases** page under **Index Management**.
```

2. Specify the alias name.

> 3. Enter the index, or index patterns to be part of the alias.

Reviewer: Add a comma after "patterns"

4. Select **Create alias**.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/create-alias.PNG" alt="User interface showing creat Alias page">

> To edit an alias:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To edit an alias, perform the following steps:
```

1. Select the alias you want to edit.
2. Select the **Actions** button.

> 3. Select **Edit** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Select **Edit** from the dropdown list.
```

> To delete an alias:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete an alias, perform the following steps:
```

1. Select the alias you want to edit.
2. Select the **Actions** button.

> 3. Select **Delete** from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Select **Delete** from the dropdown list.
```

## Rollup Jobs

The **Rollup Jobs** section under **Index Management** allows you to create or update index rollup jobs.

> To create a rollup job:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a rollup job, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Select the blue **Create rollup job** button on the **Rollup Jobs** page under **Index Management**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Create rollup job** button on the **Rollup Jobs** page under **Index Management**.
```

2. Set the name, source index, and target index.
3. Select **Next**.
4. Set the timestamp field and interval type.
5. Optionally you can set additional aggregations and additional metrics.
6. Select **Next**.
7. Under **Schedule**, check or uncheck **Enable job by default**.

> 8. Set the Continuous, execution frequency, rollup interval and page per execution settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Set the **Continuous**, **Execution frequency**, **Rollup interval** and **Page per execution** settings.
```

Reviewer 2: Is it "pages per execution"?

Reviewer: Add a comma after "Rollup interval"

9. Additionally, you can set an execution delay.
10. Select **Next**.
11. Review the settings for the rollup job and select **Create**.

You can also disable and enable rollup jobs by selecting the corresponding buttons on the **Rollup Jobs** page.

## Transform Jobs

Using the admin UI in OpenSearch Dashboards, you can create, start, stop, and complete operations with [transform]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/index-transforms/transforms-apis/) jobs.

> To create a transform job:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a transform job, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Select the blue **Create transform job** button on the **Transform Jobs** page under **Index Management**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Create transform job** button on the **Transform Jobs** page under **Index Management**.
```

2. Set the name, source index, and target index.
3. Select **Next**.
4. Select the fields to transform. From the table above, select a field you want to transform by clicking **+** next to the field name.
5. Select **Next**.
6. Check or uncheck **Job enabled by default**.
7. Set wheter the schedule is continuous and the transform execution interval.

> 8. Optionally you can set pages per execution under the **Advanced** drop-down.

Reviewer: Change "drop-down" to "dropdown list"

9. Select **Next**.
10. Review the settings for the rollup job and select **Create**.

You can also disable and enable rollup jobs by selecting the corresponding buttons on the **Transform Jobs** page.

## Long running operation status check 

> Certain index operations take time to complete (usually more than 30 secs, but could take tens of minutes or hours). This is tracked on the index status on indices page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certain index operations take time to complete (usually more than 30 seconds, up to tens of minutes or hours). This is tracked on the index status on **Indices** page.
```

Reviewer 2: What is "this" referring to? The status of the operation?

> For reindex, shrink, and split operations as they are one-time operations and not recursive, you can check the new index status for the progress of these operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check the status of the reindex, shrink, and split operations because they are one-time non-recursive operations.
```

## Security Integration

>   Permission control is managed with existing [permissions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/permissions/) or action groups that are enforced at the API level. There is currently no UI level permission control. Whoever can access the ISM plugin is able to view new pages, but whether they can make changes depends on whether they have permission to run the related APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Permission control is managed with existing [permissions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/permissions/) or action groups that are enforced at the API level. There is currently no UI-level permission control. Users with permissions to access the ISM plugin are able to view new pages. They can also make changes if they have permissions to run the related APIs.
```

## Error Handling

> Similar to API calls, if the operation fails immediately, you will be notified with an error message. However, if it is a long running operation, you will be notified of the failure at the time of failure, or you can check the index status on the **Indices** page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to API calls, if the operation fails immediately, you will be notified with an error message. However, if it is a long-running operation, you will be notified of the failure at the time of failure, or you can check the index status on the **Indices** page.
```

---
layout: default
title: Index management

> parent: Admin UI for index operations in OpenSearch Dashboards

Reviewer 3: @ariamarble After discussing with @dagneyb, we agreed that this should be called "index management UI enhancements" and not "Admin UI". Because the term appears so frequently in this topic, can you take a pass at changing the references before I edit? Let me know if you'd like to discuss. Thanks!

1. **States**: The possible states of an index, including the default state for new indexes. For example, you might name your states `hot`, `warm`, or `delete`. For more information, see [States]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies/#states).
2. **Actions**: Any actions that you want the plugin to take when an index enters a state, such as performing a rollover. For more information, see [Actions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies/#actions).
3. **Transitions**: The conditions that must be met for an index to move into a new state. For example, if an index is more than eight weeks old, you might want to move it to the `delete` state. For more information, see [Transitions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies/#transitions).

You can also upload a JSON document to specify an index policy.
{: .note}

You have complete flexibility in the way you can design your policies. You can create any state, transition to any other state, and specify any number of actions in each state.

To attach policies to indices, perform the following steps:

> 1. Under **Index Management**, select **Index policies**.

Reviewer 3: Change "select" to "choose". Global:

- Use _choose_ to describe moving to a UI component such as a tab or pane or taking action on a button or menu.
- Use _select_ to describe picking a user-specific resource or enabling one of several options. Contrast with _clear_ to turn off previously selected options.

> 2. Choose the index or indexes to which you want to attach your policy.

Reviewer 3: Change "Choose" to "Select".

3. Choose the **Apply policy** button.

> 4. From the **Policy ID** menu, choose the policy that you created.

Reviewer 3: Change "choose" to "select".

    View the preview of your policy.
5. (Optional): Specify a rollover alias if your policy includes a rollover operation. Make sure that the alias that you enter already exists. For more information about the rollover operation, see [rollover]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin/ism/policies#rollover).
6. Choose the **Apply** button.
After you attach a policy to an index, ISM creates a job that runs every 5 minutes by default to perform policy actions, check conditions, and transition the index into different states. To change the default time interval for this job, see Settings.

Policy jobs don't run if the cluster state is red.
{: .note}

## Managed indexes

To attach policies to indexes, perform the following steps:

> 1. Under **Index Management**, select **Manage Indices**.

Reviewer 3: Change "select" to "choose".

> 2. Choose the index or indexes to which you want to attach your policy.

Reviewer 3: Change "Choose" to "Select".

6. Set the number of primary shards.
7. Set the number of replicas.
8. Set the refresh intervals.
9. Add fields and objects for your index mapping using either the visual editor or the JSON editor.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/create-template-expanded.png" alt="User interface showing Create Template page">

## Aliases

An alias is a virtual index name that can point to one or more indexes. If your data is spread across multiple indexes, rather than keeping track of which indexes to query, you can create an alias and query it instead.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/aliases.PNG" alt="User interface showing Alias page">

To create an alias, perform the following steps:

1. Select the **Create Alias** button on the **Aliases** page under **Index Management**.
2. Specify the alias name.
3. Enter the index, or index patterns, to be part of the alias.
4. Select **Create alias**.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/admin-ui-index/create-alias.PNG" alt="User interface showing creat Alias page">

To edit an alias, perform the following steps:

1. Select the alias you want to edit.
2. Select the **Actions** button.

> 3. Select **Edit** from the dropdown list.

Reviewer 3: Change "Select" to "Choose".

To delete an alias, perform the following steps:

1. Select the alias you want to edit.
2. Select the **Actions** button.

> 3. Select **Delete** from the dropdown list.

Reviewer 3: Change "Select" to "Choose".

(Screenshot)

#### Open

The [open]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/open-index/) index operation opens a closed index, letting you add or search for data within the index.

To open an index, select the index you want to open in the `Indices` list under `Index Management`. Then select the `Actions` button, and select `Open` from the drop-down menu.

(Screenshot)

#### Reindex

The [reindex]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/document-apis/reindex/) operation lets you copy all or a subset of your data from a source index into a destination index.

To reindex an index, select the index you want to reindex in the `Indices` list under `Index Management`. Then select the `Actions` button, and select `Reindex` from the drop-down menu.

(Screenshot)

#### Shrink

The [shrink]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/shrink-index/) index operation moves all of your data in an existing index into a new index with fewer primary shards.

To shrink an index, select the index you want to shrink in the `Indices` list under `Index Management`. Then select the `Actions` button, and select `Shrink` from the drop-down menu.

> (Screenshot)

Reviewer 4: There is a minor change in the shrink index page lately, we have removed the warning `A copy of every shard must reside on the same node`, can you take a new screenshot for the shrink operation?

Author: will do

(Screenshots)

## Long running operation status check 

Certain index operations take time to complete (usually more than 30 secs, but could take tens of minutes or hours). This is tracked on the index status on indices page.

For reindex, shrink, and split operations as they are one-time operations and not recursive, you can check the new index status for the progress of these operations.

## Security Integration

  Permission control is managed with existing [permissions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/permissions/) or action groups that are enforced at the API level. There is currently no UI level permission control. Whoever can access the ISM plugin is able to view new pages, but whether they can make changes depends on whether they have permission to run the related APIs.

## Error Handling

Similar to API calls, if the operation fails immediately, you will be notified with an error message. However, if it is a long running operation, you will be notified of the failure at the time of failure, or you can check the index status on the `Indices` page.

(Screenshot)

## Notifications

> The admin UI uses the notification plugin to inform you of the completion of long running operations such as split, shrink, and reindex.

Reviewer 5: For 2.5 release, we have not integrated with notification plugin yet. But there will have a toast in UI telling the result of those operation result.

Author: alright sounds good. I'll get this changed.
